[Music]
ever see a medieval painting of baby
Jesus sitting or standing on his
mother's lap and wonder why she's so
large paintings like chumma buoys
enthroned Madonna with angels or
duccio's maesta also appear out of
proportion if Mary were to stand up it
seems the angels in the picture would be
as tall as her shin bone and her torso
would be disproportionately small when
compared to her legs maybe you thought
the artist simply wasn't skilled enough
to paint realistically or lack the
mathematical skill of perspective but
that's not the full story to understand
why we need to go back to the late 5th
century when the city of Rome was
attacked by the Goths
Rome was built in marble and meant to
last forever it represented for many
years the pinnacle of human civilization
so its destruction with the huge Lloyd's
theologians who preached about a world
beyond the physical began attracting an
audience as Rome crumbled and
Christianity started to fill the void
left by the Empire as a replacement for
the physical beauty of Rome Christianity
offered a metaphysical beauty of virtue
and an eternal heaven that could not be
destroyed as Rome had after the fall of
Rome early medieval theologians turned
away from physical beauty rejecting it
in favor of inner beauty they maintained
that while the physical world was
temporary virtue and religion were
permanent beautiful objects could lead
to a misguided worship of the object
rather than a worship of goodness it is
said that the early 6th century preacher
st. Benedict upon thinking of the
beautiful woman threw himself into a
thorn patch and through his suffering
regained his focus on spiritual beauty
he feared his desire for the beautiful
woman would distract him from his desire
to love God as European civilization
transitioned away from empires and
towards religion monasteries became the
gatekeepers of knowledge which meant
that classical books that praised
physical pleasures were not copied or
protected without protection they became
the victims of natural decay fire
flooding for pests and without the help
of monks transcribing new copies these
texts and the philosophies they carried
disappeared in Western Europe and were
replaced by the works of people like
Saint Benedict which brings us back to
these depictions of Jesus and Mary
because Christianity had so fervently
rejected physical beauty these medieval
artists purposefully avoided
aesthetically pleasing forms
at first decorations for churches or
palaces were limited to interesting
geometric patterns which could be
pleasing without inspiring sinful
thoughts of physical pleasure as the
medieval period progressed depictions of
Jesus and Mary were tolerated but the
artists clearly made an effort to veil
Mary and give her disproportionately
large legs with those enormous shin
bones the fear remained that a beautiful
illustration of Mary might inspire the
viewer to love the painting or the
physical form of Mary rather than the
virtue she's meant to represent so even
though it might be fun to think we can
paint more realistically than she mabui
or do Chiyo we need to remember that
they had different goals when picking up
a paintbrush
you